# skyrmion_model_widget

The interactive widget illustrates a mathematical description of a structure
known as skyrmion. Skyrmions are magnetic configurations resembling vortices
that can be found in a specific range of magnetic materials where an inversion
symmetry is absent.  These configurations can be as small as a few nanometres
and are stable against perturbations, for example from temperature, because of
their peculiar topological properties. This also means that they can be
manipulated. For instance, they can be moved with electric currents. A skyrmion
can be described using a classical model, where the angular momentum of every
atom in a magnetic system, which is known as a spin, is represented by a three
dimensional vector.  The spin is a physical property that specifies the
magnetic properties of a magnetic material. Every spin can be understood as a
tiny magnet whose orientation is given by the vector orientation. From the
interaction of neighbouring spins, which is determined by the properties of the
magnetic material under study, different magnetic configurations can arise,
such as the vortex-like pattern of a skyrmion. 

The interactive plot shows a top view of a skyrmion in a triangular arrangement
of atoms. The plot shows the in-plane orientation of the spin vector of every
atom. The spins are coloured according to the out of plane vector component,
which is labelled as the z-direction. Because of the triangular arrangement of
atoms, their positions can be modelled as hexagons. The skyrmion state can have
different configurations depending on the interactions present on the system.
These configurations can be described by three parameters known as chirality,
vorticity and helicity, which determine the orientation of the spin vectors.
The chirality modifies the sense of rotation of the spins. The helicity can
modify the structure from a hedgehog-like pattern, when it is 0, to a
whirl-like pattern when it is equal to pi. And, finally, the vorticity changes
the pattern between a vortex or anti-vortex pattern. 

This linear model of a skyrmion has been useful to understand the properties of
skyrmions in magnetic disks made of FeGe
[https://www.nature.com/articles/srep17137]. Magnetic skyrmions have recently
been an important topic of study because of their potential application to
novel technologies, such as spin based magnetic recording devices.
